As the world's population increases, so does the demand for food. However, traditional farming methods are not sustainable in meeting this demand due to limited soil and plant diseases that can significantly reduce crop yield. The solution may lie in the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in agriculture, which can improve disease detection and prediction of crop yield. This thesis focuses on a feasibility study to predict crop yield based on crop damage using AI. It covers the theoretical foundation of deep learning, digital transformation, smart farming, and AI, along with research methodology and a case study on leaf disease detection using a deep learning algorithm. The output and insights of the thesis are discussed, along with its limitations and conclusions.

In this project investigating the data set, the data set seemed to be unbalanced, which was confirmed by running it for data exploration. After visualizing the features and gaining an understanding of the relationship between the elements, one predictive model was investigated. The data was split into training, test, and validation sets. Then, define a function to plot the training data.

From the confusion matrix, I know the error rate of the model. In the confusion matrix, there are 30 errors in 652 tests so because of this error rate the model accuracy is 95%. In the matrix, it shows that the model predicted 9 images in the rice category which is Rice_Leaf_Blast as Rice_Brown_Spot and 6 images in the rice category which is Rice_Healthy as Rice_Brown_Spot.

From the classification report, I obtain the value of precision, recall, f1-score and accuracy. In the project precision, recall and f1-score value are high for 14 class labels which means that the model is very accurate. And the model accuracy is 0.9540 which means the model was 95% accurate.
